The contractor shall design, develop, document, implement, evaluate
and deliver a format inference algorithm for ad hoc data and propose
architecture for a Network Forensics Analysis Workbench that includes
inference algorithm.

Receiving Organization: USAF-AFMC
Expected Delivery Date: 20 July 2007 

======
CDRLS:
======

A003 Real Time Network Forensics Inference Evaluation/Effectiveness
Technical Information Report on the evaluation of the effectiveness of
format inference for real-time network forensics, by having a
collection of data sources relevant to the domain.

A004 - Inference Algorithm Design Technical Information Report on the
design, development, documentation and implementation of an Inference
Algorithm to support the evaluation.

A005 Architecture for Forensic Data Workbench Technical Information
Report on the use of ideas of the LaunchPADS system to propose a
Forensic Data Workbench Architecture.

A006 Evaluation to Produce High-Quality Descriptions of Ad Hoc Data to
evaluate and document the effectiveness of the inference algorithm.

A007 Software Demonstrations and Evaluation Documentation

A008 Executable Software, Source Files and Packaging Requirements. We
will deliver all computer software developed under this effort as
source and object (executable) code on electronic media. We shall
likewise include the commented source listings and source coded for
the target computer system.

A009 - COTS Manual and Associated Supplemental Data for all software
purchased or licensed as a component of the software delivered,
transfer licensing and maintenance agreements to the Government.

A010 DARPA Final Report which will document the details of all
technical work accomplished and information gained during the
performance of this acquisition to permit full understanding of the
techniques and procedures used in evolving technology or processes
developed. We shall include all pertinent observations, nature or
problems, positive and negative outcome, and design criteria where
applicable. The report shall document procedures followed, processes
developed, "lessons learned," and other useful information.
