Title: 
PADS: A declarative domain-specific language for describing ad hoc data.

IP Management Contact: Rich Palazzo

Business Unit Sponsor: AT&T Labs Research

IP Type: Software License- source code

Enable E*Contact Technology: No

License Type: Non-commercial
Proposal owner : Kathleen Fisher
Proposal SME: Kathleen Fisher
Attorney contact: Sam Dworetsky (check spelling)
Issued patent, submission, or patent application: No
  The deadline for filling a patent has past and the business decision
  was not to pursue a patent application before the deadline.

Standard Issued or Contribution: No

Value Projected $: 0

Licensees: Princeton would like to be able to access the system as
soon as the source is available.  In addition, researchers at the
University of Michigan are interested in building additional
statistical analyses into the generated library. Other parties have
requested access to the system as soon as it is released.

Executive Summary
What is the function of this technology (Service, Software, etc.)?

PADS is a declarative data description language that allows data
consumers to specify both the physical layout and the semantic
properties of their data.  From this description, the PADS system
generates libraries and tools for manipulating the data.  Because it
captures the relevant properties of a data source in a concise
declarative form, a PADS description can serve as documentation for
otherwise undocumented ad hoc data sources.

For a given description, the generated core library contains functions
for parsing, validating, summarizing, and pretty-printing the data.
Generated tools include programs for aggregating data, formatting it
for inclusion in a relational database, and feeding it into a
stream-based query system.  In addition, the PADS system generates an
instance of the Galax Data API, enabling the execution of XQueries
over PADS data sources.

PADS differs from traditional parser generators in several respects.
First, PADS chooses a canonical in-memory
representation for the data, allowing the specification to be purely
declarative, which in turn allows the PADS system to generate many
useful tools from one specification.  
Second, the PADS parser returns both an in-memory representation of
the data and a parse descriptor that describes any errors that
occurred during the parse.  This parse descriptor allows data analysts
to respond flexibly to errors in the data: they can halt all
processing, discard the offending data, or even repair it, all at
their discretion.
Third, it allows data-dependent parsing, in which values in the data
control down-stream parsing.  Common examples include sequences whose
lengths are fixed by a header field and choices whose variants are
determined by tag fields.  




What is the driving force to release this intellectual property?

The PADS system will improve dramatically with input from outside AT&T
sources, both in terms of users and collaborators.  The goal of the
system is to be able express as many data formats as possible.  By
expanding our user base outside of AT&T, we will be able to test and
refine the design of PADS on a wider variety of data formats,
improving it for internal as well as external use.  In addition, there
is growing interest outside of AT&T in formalizing the semantics of
PADS and in extending the system with translation capablities.
Formalization would significantly clarify the semantics.  Adding a
translation capability would facilitate converting ad hoc data sources
into more tractable forms.  Ideally, the PADS language would grow into
some kind of standard for ad hoc data sources.  As a standard, the
language would have many more resources put into it than AT&T can
invest alone.  AT&T would dramatically benefit from such investments
as we process so many ad hoc data sources.

Currently PADS is being used as part of the DarkStar project and is in
the process of being integrated into the Gigascope system.  We are
exploring integrating it into the Edge Management System as well.


Complete list of all Intellectual Property being licensed for release.
PADS system (compiler written in SML, runtime libraries written in C)
PADS uses portions of the AST library, which has been previously released.



Risk Assessment
Advantages: How does this release help AT&T?
Releasing PADS helps AT&T in three ways:
 1. Allow non-AT&T people to collaborate on the formalization of PADS
    and on extensions to support translation.  Such work would improve
    the PADS system for internal use.
 2. Support an eventual standardization effort, which would be the
    most likely path through which AT&T could get commercial quality
    implementation of PADS-like facilities.
 3. Allow us to get feedback on the design and implementation from
    a wide variety of users.


Disadvantages:
 a) What happens if AT&T chooses not to release the Intellectual
 Property?

   The development of the PADS system would be retarded, both because
   fewer people would be able to exercise the system and because fewer
   people (i.e. one) would able to develop for it. Its potential benefits  
   to AT&T services such as DarkStar, Gigascope, and the Edge Management  
   System would be more limited. 


 b) Is there a competitive or strategic danger to AT&T, if it releases
 the Intellectual property?

   None that I am aware of.

5. What are the geographic restrictions?

   None that I am aware of.  We are not using any cryptography.

6. What is the duration of the license?

   Indefinite.

7. What are the rights being granted the licensees by AT&T?

   Compile and use source code
   View and edit source code


8. What are the costs associated with the release of this Intellectual
Property? (Other than the administrative costs to review and legal
costs to prepare and negotiate the contract)

  Negligible.

9. Any additional pertinent information? 

Yitzhak Mandelbaum would like to do his Ph.D. thesis work at Princeton
on formalizing aspects of PADS.  Releasing the system is a
prerequisite for him to be able to do so.  The PADS system would
benefit tremendously from this work.


Organizations expected to be impacted? 
None. 

Comments for organizations to be impacted, including contact person 
None.
 
Terms and conditions of an agreement. 
We would like a non-commercial use license like the one developed for
Hancock, available from

http://www.research.att.com/projects/hancock/distribution.2.0.1/LICENSE.html

Such a license allows for unrestricted academic use but prevents
commercialization by other companies.
