Title: 
PADS: A declarative domain-specific language for describing ad hoc data.

IP Management Contact: ??

Business Unit Sponsor: AT&T Labs Research

IP Type: Software License- source code

Enable E*Contact Technology: ??

License Type: ??
Proposal owner : ??
Proposal SME: ??
Attorney contact:??
Issued patent, submission, or patent application: No
  We wrote a workshop paper about PADS which appeared in June 2003.
  At various points, we were contacted by IP lawyers, but no patent
  application was filed for PADS before the deadline.

Standard Issued or Contribution: No

Value Projected $: ??

Licensees: ??

Executive Summary
What is the function of this technology (Service, Software, etc.)?

PADS is a declarative data description language that allows data
consumers to specify both the physical layout and the semantic
properties of their data.  From this description, the PADS system
generates libraries and tools for manipulating the data.  Because it
captures the relevant properties of a data source in a concise
declarative form, a PADS description can serve as documentation for
otherwise undocumented ad hoc data sources.

For a given description, the generated core library contains functions
for parsing, validating, summarizing, and pretty-printing the data.
Generated tools include programs for aggregating data, formatting it
for inclusion in a relational database, and feeding it into a
stream-based query system.  In addition, the PADS system generates an
instance of the Galax Data API, enabling the execution of XQueries
over PADS data sources.

PADS differs from traditional parser generators in several respects.  
First, PADS chooses a canonical in-memory
representation for the data, allowing the specification to be purely
declarative, which in turn allows the PADS system to generate many
useful tools from one specification.  
Second, the PADS parser returns both an in-memory representation of
the data and a parse descriptor that describes any errors that
occurred during the parse.  This parse descriptor allows data analysts
to respond flexibly to errors in the data: they can halt all
processing, discard the offending data, or even repair it, all at
their discretion.
Third, it allows data-dependent parsing, in which values in the data
control down-stream parsing.  Common examples include sequences whose
lengths are fixed by a header field and choices whose variants are
determined by tag fields.  




What is the driving force to release this intellectual property?

The PADS system will improve dramatically with input from outside AT&T
sources, both in terms of users and collaborators.  The goal of the
system is to be able express as many data formats as possible.  By
expanding our user base outside of AT&T, we will be able to test and
refine the design of PADS on a wider variety of data formats,
improving it for internal as well as external use.  In addition, there
is growing interest outside of AT&T in formalizing the semantics of
PADS and in extending the system with translation capablities.
Formalization would significantly clarify the semantics.  Adding a
translation capability would facilitate converting ad hoc data sources
into more tractable forms.  Ideally, the PADS language would grow into
some kind of standard for ad hoc data sources.  As a standard, the
language would have many more resources put into it that AT&T can
invest alone.  AT&T would dramatically benefit from such investments
as we process so many ad hoc data sources.


Complete list of all Intellectual Property being licensed for release.
PADS system (compiler written in SML, runtime libraries written in C)
enabling technology:  portions of the AST library


Risk Assessment
Advantages: How does this release help AT&T?
Releasing PADS helps AT&T in three ways:
 1. Allow us to get feedback on the design and implementation from
    a wide variety of users.
 2. Allow non-AT&T people to collaborate on the formalization of PADS
    and on extensions to support translation.  Such work would improve
    the PADS system for internal use.
 3. Support an eventual standardization effort, which would be the
    most likely path through which AT&T could get commercial quality
    implementation of PADS-like facilities.


Disadvantages:
 a) What happens if AT&T chooses not to release the Intellectual
 Property?

   The development of the PADS system would be weakened, both because
   fewer people would be able to exercise the system and because fewer
   people would able to develop for it.

 b) Is there a competitive or strategic danger to AT&T, if it releases
 the Intellectual property?

   None that I can think of.  


5. What are the geographic restrictions?

   None that I am aware of.  We are not using any cryptography.

6. What is the duration of the license?

   ??


7. What are the rights being granted the lincesees by AT&T?

   Compile and use source code
   View and edit source code, (returning product to AT&T?)
   Non-commercial use?  (Seek additional license for commercial use?)


8. What are the costs associated with the release of this Intellectual
Property? (Other than the administrative costs to review and legal
costs to prepare and negotiate the contract)

  Negligible.

9. Any additional pertinent information? 

Organizations expected to be impaced? ??
Comments for organizations to be impacted, including contact person ??
 
Terms and conditions of an agreement. ??
